---
license: cc-by-nc-sa-4.0
task_categories:
- multiple-choice
language:
- en
tags:
- security
size_categories:
- n<1K
configs:
- config_name: secqa_v1
  data_files:
  - split: dev
    path: "data/secqa_v1_dev.csv"
  - split: val
    path: "data/secqa_v1_val.csv"
  - split: test
    path: "data/secqa_v1_test.csv"
- config_name: secqa_v2
  data_files:
  - split: dev
    path: "data/secqa_v2_dev.csv"
  - split: val
    path: "data/secqa_v2_val.csv"
  - split: test
    path: "data/secqa_v2_test.csv"
---
# SecQA

<!-- Provide a quick summary of the dataset. -->

SecQA is a specialized dataset created for the evaluation of Large Language Models (LLMs) in the domain of computer security. 
It consists of multiple-choice questions, generated using GPT-4 and the 
[Computer Systems Security: Planning for Success](https://web.njit.edu/~rt494/security/) textbook, 
aimed at assessing the understanding and application of LLMs' knowledge in computer security.


## Dataset Details

### Dataset Description

<!-- Provide a longer summary of what this dataset is. -->

SecQA is an innovative dataset designed to benchmark the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in the field of computer security. 
It contains a series of multiple-choice questions generated by GPT-4, based on the content from the textbook 
[Computer Systems Security: Planning for Success](https://web.njit.edu/~rt494/security/). 
The dataset is structured into two versions, v1 and v2, with v2 presenting a higher level of difficulty. 
This design allows for a preliminary evaluation of LLMs across different levels of complexity 
in understanding and applying computer security principles. 
The dataset aims to provide a unique resource for researchers and developers to gauge the capabilities of LLMs 
in this domain that is critical to modern digital infrastructures.

- **Curated by:** [Zefang Liu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zefang-liu/)
- **Language(s) (NLP):** English
- **License:** [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 DEED](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)

### Dataset Sources

<!-- Provide the basic links for the dataset. -->

- **Repository:** [SecQA](https://huggingface.co/datasets/zefang-liu/secqa)
- **Book:** [Computer Systems Security: Planning for Success](https://web.njit.edu/~rt494/security/)
- **Paper:** [SecQA: A Concise Question-Answering Dataset for Evaluating Large Language Models in Computer Security](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15838)

## Uses

<!-- Address questions around how the dataset is intended to be used. -->

The primary application of SecQA is to serve as a benchmark for testing and evaluating 
the capabilities of LLMs in the domain of computer security.

### Direct Use

<!-- This section describes suitable use cases for the dataset. -->

The SecQA dataset is primarily intended for evaluating and benchmarking the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) 
in understanding and applying principles of computer security. 
It's suitable for academic research, development of AI in cybersecurity education, 
and testing the ability of models to interpret and respond to security-related scenarios.


### Out-of-Scope Use

<!-- This section addresses misuse, malicious use, and uses that the dataset will not work well for. -->

SecQA is not designed for and should not be used as a sole resource for real-world cybersecurity decision-making or incident response. 
Its use is also inappropriate for training models for unethical purposes, such as hacking or creating security exploits. 
Additionally, the dataset should not be considered comprehensive for all aspects of computer security, 
and thus, it's not suitable for scenarios requiring broad or up-to-date industry knowledge.

## Dataset Structure

<!-- This section provides a description of the dataset fields, and additional information about the dataset structure such as criteria used to create the splits, relationships between data points, etc. -->

SecQA is structured into two versions, v1 and v2. Version 1 (v1) serves as the foundational level, 
while version 2 (v2) presents a more advanced challenge, catering to a higher degree of difficulty in the questions posed. 
Each version is composed of multiple-choice questions that are closely aligned with different learning objectives 
within the field of computer security.

Each question in the dataset offers four answer choices, with only one being the correct answer. 
To ensure fairness and eliminate any bias in question design, the answer choices have been carefully shuffled. 
This shuffling not only contributes to a balanced distribution of answers 
but also enhances the dataset’s effectiveness in evaluating the nuanced understanding and reasoning capabilities 
of Large Language Models in computer security scenarios.

## Dataset Creation

### Curation Rationale

<!-- Motivation for the creation of this dataset. -->

The dataset was created to fill a gap in assessing the understanding and application of computer security concepts by LLMs.

### Source Data

<!-- This section describes the source data (e.g. news text and headlines, social media posts, translated sentences, ...). -->

#### Data Collection and Processing

<!-- This section describes the data collection and processing process such as data selection criteria, filtering and normalization methods, tools and libraries used, etc. -->

The questions were generated by GPT-4, leveraging content from the textbook "Computer Systems Security: Planning for Success" 
under the guidance of researchers.

#### Who are the source data producers?

<!-- This section describes the people or systems who originally created the data. It should also include self-reported demographic or identity information for the source data creators if this information is available. -->

The source data is produced by a collaboration between GPT-4 and researchers, utilizing the aforementioned textbook.

## Bias, Risks, and Limitations

<!-- This section is meant to convey both technical and sociotechnical limitations. -->

The SecQA dataset, though valuable for evaluating LLMs in computer security, 
has limitations due to potential content biases from its source material and GPT-4 processing, 
a narrow focus on computer security that may not extend to broader cybersecurity contexts, 
and varying levels of difficulty across versions that could affect model assessment fairness. 
Additionally, the shuffling of answer choices, while promoting balance, might introduce patterns exploitable by sophisticated models. 
Given the rapid evolution of the field, some aspects of the dataset may quickly become outdated, 
and there is a risk of misuse for purposes like security manipulation. 
These factors should be carefully considered in research and application contexts.

### Recommendations

<!-- This section is meant to convey recommendations with respect to the bias, risk, and technical limitations. -->

Users should be made aware of the risks, biases and limitations of the dataset.

## Citation

<!-- If there is a paper or blog post introducing the dataset, the APA and Bibtex information for that should go in this section. -->

**BibTeX:**

```
@article{liu2023secqa,
  title={SecQA: A Concise Question-Answering Dataset for Evaluating Large Language Models in Computer Security},
  author={Liu, Zefang},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.15838},
  year={2023}
}
```

**APA:**

Liu, Z. (2023). SecQA: A Concise Question-Answering Dataset for Evaluating Large Language Models in Computer Security. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.15838.

## Dataset Card Contact

For inquiries or further information about the SecQA dataset, 
please contact [Zefang Liu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zefang-liu/).